The yeartext for 2020 was
about the preaching work:
“Go . . . make disciples . . . ,
baptizing them.”
Now, in harmony with that theme,
the Governing Body directed
that a number of study articles
should be prepared
for the study edition
of The Watchtower
about the ministry and particularly
about conducting Bible studies.
Then at the regional convention this summer,
why, almost the entirety of Saturday
was dedicated to the disciple-making work.
Why?
We don’t just want to report Bible studies;
we want to make disciples.
That’s what Jesus told us to do:
“Go . . . make disciples . . . ,
baptizing them.”
Now, when it comes to reporting
Bible studies, we’re doing very well.
Worldwide, we’re reporting
about ten million Bible studies.
And when you think of it, in many cases,
more than one person
is sitting in on that study.
So it could be
that between 12 and 15 million people
are studying the Bible with us.
But now,
what about the “make disciples” part of it?
Well, every year,
between 200 and 300 thousand people
are baptized.
So you can see that the “make disciples” part
is lagging behind
the reporting Bible studies part.
Now, this trend has been a concern
of the Governing Body for a number of years.
And we wondered,
‘Why is it that so many people
are not taking a stand for the truth?’
You can probably think
of a number of reasons yourself.
Some people, for example, are quite happy
to learn what the Bible teaches,
but they’re not willing
to act on what the Bible teaches.
They’re not willing
to make drastic changes in their life.
Some may have studied
through a whole book or maybe two,
but they haven’t been to a single meeting
—maybe one, maybe the Memorial once.
Well, they make us think of something
that Jehovah told the Israelites
back in the days of Ezekiel.
I’d like you to turn to Ezekiel chapter 33,
and we’re going to read verse 32.
Now, this was a description
of the Israelites in Ezekiel’s day,
but I think you’ll find
that the description fits pretty well
a few of our Bible students.
Ezekiel chapter 33 (I’ll give you a moment),
and we’re going to read verse 32:
“Look! You are to them
like a romantic love song,
“sung with a beautiful voice
“and skillfully played
on a stringed instrument.
“[But then notice this.]
“They will hear your words,
but no one will act on them.”
Doesn’t that describe some
of our Bible students?
Or maybe the study isn’t regular;
maybe it isn’t consistent.
Maybe the student often cancels
or maybe the publisher often cancels.
Well, if a study isn’t regular,
it’s pretty hard for the person
to make progress, isn’t it?
And in many cases, kindhearted publishers
just can’t bring themselves to stop the study
when no progress is being made.
Or they may say:
‘If I stop the study, I won’t have a study.
I like having a Bible study.’
Well, we’re talking about progressive
Bible studies, and that’s a challenge.
It’s not easy to conduct
a progressive Bible study.
There are so many factors to consider.
For example: ‘How early do I bring in prayer?
‘How do I direct interest
to the organization?
‘How early should I mention the meetings?
And what do I do if my Bible student
doesn’t show up at the meeting?’
What about opposition?
That can be tricky.
Bring it up too soon,
and you might scare him off.
Wait too long, and it may be too late.
And what about the ministry?
‘How do I encourage my Bible student
‘to share what he is learning with others?
‘These are a lot of challenges,
‘and don’t even mention
helping my Bible student
to break a bad habit like smoking.’
Wouldn’t it be great
if we could get some help
with some of these things?
Here’s more food for thought:
‘How do I make sure that the material
‘is really touching the student’s heart?
‘I want that student to love Jehovah,
to get to know Jehovah.
‘I want him to have
a warm personal relationship
‘with Jehovah so that no one
‘—neither the boss nor his relatives
nor his mate nor his neighbor—
will be allowed to come
between my student and Jehovah God.’
Here’s another thing
for conducting a Bible study:
We want to focus on the Scriptures.
Jesus said: “The seed is the word of God.”
‘So, now, how do I draw my student out
‘as to his feelings about this scripture?
‘Maybe he understands
what the scripture says,
but how does he feel
about what he is learning?’
Wouldn’t it be great
if some of those questions
were prepared for us?
Bible students also have challenges
in their personal life.
Wouldn’t it be great
if we could bring someone
on our study who has gone through
a similar situation as the students?
who understands
what the student is going through?
That would really take
the pressure off, wouldn’t it?
And how can you evaluate
the progress of the student?
‘How do I know if the student
is steadily working
‘toward becoming an unbaptized publisher
and then getting baptized?’
Here’s another thing:
One of the reasons why it takes so long
for some to make progress
is that there are two books
and a brochure to go through.
That’s a lot of reading.
And when you think of it,
a lot of our students
have never opened a book
since they left school.
So for them, this is a big change.
Some get baptized
before they’ve covered the second book,
and that’s a pity because they’re losing out
on practical information on Christian living
that they really need to have.
And then some of our brothers and sisters
are not even using
the Jehovah’s Will  brochure
to direct interest to the organization.
‘The Jehovah’s Will  brochure?
What’s that?’
Exactly!
Wouldn’t it be great if in just one book,
we could cover all
of the basic doctrinal matters,
all of the matters about Christian living,
and direct people’s interest
to the organization
—in just one book?
That truly would be great.
Well, maybe right now, you’re saying:
‘All right, I understand.
‘We do need some help with this,
but what are you doing about it?’
I’ll tell you.
In April 2018,
the Service Committee of the Governing Body
surveyed the branches
to find out what teaching methods
were really effective
in bringing people along to baptism.
We have to admit that some
of the study material and teaching methods
that were used 30 years ago
were great for the time,
but they don’t necessarily
meet the needs of people today.
Well, they got some good answers in.
And based on the answers,
early in 2019, a team of brothers
—there were writers and
there were designers and consultants—
they got together to investigate
whether we could improve
on the tools that we’re using.
And they came up
with a new method
for conducting studies.
Now, let’s stop here and be very clear.
We deeply appreciate
all of the study material
that we’ve had over the years.
It’s always been great for the times.
Now, maybe like me,
you cut your teeth on “Let God Be True,”
“This Means Everlasting Life,”
“The Truth Shall Make You Free,”
—those books were just perfect
for the period just after World War II.
And then we know that the Live Forever  book
was a real favorite with many.
Now, it wasn’t the “Study Forever” book;
it was the Live Forever  book.
But some took an awful long time
to complete their study in that book.
And, of course, we’ve all appreciated
the Teach Us  book
and the Remain in God’s Love  book.
All of this material
has been very, very good.
But times change,
and people’s needs change as well.
We’re living in a visual society,
and people learn less
by reading than by observing,
by watching, and by discussion.
So, what are we saying?
Are you ready?
Today, the Governing Body
is happy to announce
that a brand new publication
for conducting Bible studies
will soon be made available
in printed form and in electronic form.
Would you like to know the title?
It’s a good one.
Enjoy Life Forever!
—An Interactive Bible Course.
The title is taken from Psalm 22:26:
“Those seeking Jehovah will praise him.
May you enjoy life forever.”
Isn’t that nice?
Isn’t that a nice text?
How was the course put together?
Well, the branches
sent in all of their comments,
and they were good comments.
And then the writers got busy,
and they analyzed the comments
that were sent in by the branches.
And on the basis of those comments,
three sample lessons were prepared.
Now, the lessons look good on paper,
but would they work in the field?
To find out, those lessons were sent
to 97 different countries
for field-testing,
and the results were very encouraging.
So all 60 lessons in the book
were sent to the field for testing.
Now, the question may come up:
‘Who are the testers?
‘Did you get all the circuit overseers,
‘the missionaries,
the special pioneers together
and have them test the material?’
Well, there were some of those,
but not all were circuit overseers,
not all were missionaries,
or special pioneers.
So a wide variety of brothers
and sisters were used in this test.
Some were quite new in the truth,
and others had been in the truth
for quite some time.
The result is the publication
that will soon be made available.
Now, what’s different about this course?
I’m not going to go into much detail
because Brother Jackson
is going to handle that.
But here are a couple of points:
First of all, very important,
all of the information
that’s required to answer the 60 questions
for baptismal candidates
is covered thoroughly in this book.
All of the information needed
—that is, Bible topics,
Christian living topics,
directing interest to the organization—
is all thoroughly covered in just one book.
You do not, repeat,
you do not have to study a second book.
What’s the format like?
Well, it’s somewhat similar
to the midweek Meeting Workbook,
and you’ll see that it’s organized in a way
that there can be a free discussion
between the student and the conductor.
In fact, in each lesson,
there are just a few introductory paragraphs
that the student is invited
to read ahead of time.
But most of the lesson will be handled
between the conductor and the student.
It will be a discussion.
The material will focus on the Scriptures.
A typical sentence might read:
‘Read this scripture;
then answer these questions.’
And the questions are provided.
The electronic copy of the book
has links to some 200 different videos
that you can view during the study.
Remember the problem
of having somebody along on the study
who has gone through
the same problems as the student has?
Problem solved.
You just look up a video interview
and play that for the student.
And no doubt, he will glean
a great deal of benefit from it.
At regular intervals,
tactful reference is made
to sharing the truth with others.
A typical question,
‘How would you explain
what you just learned to a friend?’
At the end of every lesson,
the student is given a goal
that he can work toward.
And that way, it will help him
to evaluate his progress.
And Jehovah’s qualities
are showcased throughout the book.
We want the student to realize
that Jehovah loves him very much
and that Jehovah’s feelings are influenced,
or affected, by the decisions
that the student makes.
And that way, he will cultivate a warm,
personal relationship with Jehovah.
Well, we humans
are creatures of habit, aren’t we?
We’ve used the simple
question-and-answer method
for many, many years
in conducting Bible studies.
And it has met the needs in the past.
But in our communication with the branches,
it has become obvious
that something else is needed.
So ask Jehovah to help you
to get used to this new method, and use it.
You’ll be glad you did.
We pray that Jehovah
will bless our efforts to use this tool.
And wouldn’t it be great if when you use it,
you not only study with people
but make disciples of them?